FAQ (#45)
githedgehog/docs: docs/faq/overview.md

> # F.A.Q

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
```

> ## What is the Hedgehog Fabric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is the Hedgehog Fabric?

```

Additional questions: “What is the Open Network Fabric? How does it differ from the Hedgehog Fabric?” :innocent:

> The Hedgehog Fabric is a topology of routers arranged in a spine-leaf architecture. A spine-leaf architecture is a type of Clos topology. In a spine-leaf architectures the leaves are usually placed in racks and connected directly to the servers, and spines are connected only to leaves. In a spine-leaf architecture the fundamental unit of connection is a layer 3 route. The Hedgehog Fabric is managed via Kubernetes objects and custom resource definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Hedgehog Fabric is a topology of routers arranged in a spine-leaf architecture. A spine-leaf architecture is a type of [Clos network topology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clos_network). In a spine-leaf architecture, the leaves are usually placed in racks and connected directly to the servers, whereas spines are connected only to leaves. In a spine-leaf architecture, the fundamental unit of connection is a layer 3 route.

The Hedgehog Fabric is managed via Kubernetes objects and custom resource definitions.
```

> ## Why is a spine-leaf architecture useful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What are the advantages of a spine-leaf architecture?

```

> A spine-leaf architecture provides more bandwidth for traffic that is passing between servers inside of a data center, other architectures like core-access-aggregation are setup to provide more bandwidth in and out of the data center. A spine-leaf architecture provides multiple paths between nodes which allows for router maintenance and resilience in the case of failures. The spine-leaf architecture allows allows for multiple points of egress via border leaf nodes. In a spine-leaf architecture the unit of connection is a layer 3 route, this is advantageous to manage traffic ingress or egress as well as quality of service for the applications on the network. To manage the availability of routes usually BGP, OSPF, or IS-IS are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When architectures such as core-access-aggregation provide more bandwidth in and out of the data center, a spine-leaf architecture provides more bandwidth for traffic that passes between servers _inside of_ a data center. A spine-leaf architecture comprises multiple paths between nodes, which allows for router maintenance and resilience in the case of failures. A network based on the spine-leaf architecture can contain multiple points of egress via border leaf nodes. In a spine-leaf architecture, the unit of connection is a layer-3 route, which is advantageous to manage traffic ingress or egress as well as quality of service for the applications on the network. The availability of routes is usually ensured by the BGP, OSPF, or IS-IS routing protocols.
```

Why are layer-3 routes advantageous to manage ingress/egress and QoS?

Also: diagrams?

Author: I did update this section with a couple of diagrams. I also re-worded the paragraph a bit.

> ## What does it mean to manage my network with Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What does it mean to manage my network with Kubernetes?
```

> Commonly a network is managed manually via command line interface or with the hardware vendors tools. Managing a small number of switches and routers this way is cumbersome but workable. Managing switches with Kubernetes is similar to managing pods and applications with Kubernetes. If the administrator wants to create a new Nginx pod, they will create the YAML file describing the pod name, the container image, any ports that the pods needs exposed and what namespace to run the pod in. After the YAML file is done a simple `kubectl apply -f nginx.yaml` is all that is needed in order for the pods to be scheduled. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common way to manage a network is to proceed manually via the command-line interface of the equipment, or with the hardware vendor tools. Managing a small number of switches and routers this way is workable, but cumbersome, and it only gets more painful when the network grows. Managing switches and servers with Kubernetes is similar to managing pods and applications with Kubernetes: it provides assistance for deployment, scaling, and management of the network appliances.

For example, if the administrator of a Kubernetes cluster wants to create a new Nginx pod, they write down the YAML file describing the pod name, the container image, any ports that the pod needs exposed, and what namespace to run the pod in. After the YAML file is created, a simple `kubectl apply -f nginx.yaml` is all that the administrator needs to run in order for the pod to be scheduled. 
```

> this way is cumbersome but workable

If this is workable, then why switch to the Hedgehog Fabric?? :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Some people are okay with leaving others to do cumbersome work if the price is right. 
You are right that people to be aware that hand jamming config via the cli doesn't scale.

> With the Hedgehog Fabric, the same ideas apply to managing network resources. A YAML file is created to configure a VPC. The YAML file describes the IP address range for the private cloud, the 192.168.0.0/16 space for example. Any VLANS that the private cloud needs can also be configured in the yaml file. After the desired options are in the file a `kubectl apply -f vpc1.yaml` is all that is needed for the configurations to be pushed to the switch and the switch configuration is live.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Hedgehog Fabric, the same principles apply to managing network resources. Administrators create a YAML file to configure a VPC. The YAML file describes the IP address range for the private cloud, for example the `192.168.0.0/16` space. It also describes any VLANs that the private cloud needs. After the desired options are in the file, administrators can push the configuration to the switch with a mere `kubectl apply -f vpc1.yaml`, and within a few seconds the switch configuration is live.
```

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

## What is the Hedgehog Fabric?

The Hedgehog Fabric is a topology of routers arranged in a spine-leaf architecture. A spine-leaf architecture is a type of [Clos network topology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clos_network). In a spine-leaf architecture, the leaves are usually placed in racks and connected directly to the servers, whereas spines are connected only to leaves. In a spine-leaf architecture, the fundamental unit of connection is a layer 3 route.

The Hedgehog Fabric is managed via Kubernetes objects and custom resource definitions.

## What are the advantages of a spine-leaf architecture?

> A spine-leaf architecture is designed to facilitate traffic that is passing between servers inside of a data center, other architectures like core-access-aggregation are setup to facilitate traffic moving in and out of the data center. A spine-leaf architecture provides multiple paths between nodes which allows for router maintenance and resilience in the case of failures. The spine-leaf architecture allows allows for multiple points of egress via border leaf nodes. In a spine-leaf architecture the unit of connection is a layer 3 route. There are robust tools, queueing algorithms and hardware available to manage network traffic at layer 3. To manage the distribution of routes to switches inside the fabric a protocol such as  BGP, OSPF, or IS-IS is used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A spine-leaf architecture is designed to facilitate traffic that is passing between servers inside of a data center, other architectures like core-access-aggregation are setup to facilitate traffic moving in and out of the data center. A spine-leaf architecture provides multiple paths between nodes which allows for router maintenance and resilience in the case of failures. The spine-leaf architecture allows for multiple points of egress via border leaf nodes. In a spine-leaf architecture the unit of connection is a layer 3 route. There are robust tools, queueing algorithms and hardware available to manage network traffic at layer 3. To manage the distribution of routes to switches inside the fabric a protocol such as BGP, OSPF, or IS-IS is used. 
```

### Spine Leaf Architecture Diagram
```mermaid
graph TD
    S1([Spine 1])
    S2([Spine 2])
    S3([Spine 3])
    L1([Leaf 1])
    L2([Leaf 2])
    L3([Leaf 3])
    L4([Leaf 4])
    WS1[[Worload Servers]]
    WS2[[Worload Servers]]
    WS3[[Worload Servers]]
    WS4[[Worload Servers]]

    S1 & S2 & S3 ---- L1 & L2 & L3 & L4 
    L1 ---- WS1
    L2 ---- WS2
    L3 ---- WS3
    L4 ---- WS4

```

> In the above diagram Leaf and Spine routers, servers inside of a virtual private cloud can be attached to any leaf. In order for the servers to communicate routes are applied to leaf nodes and traffic that needs to pass from leaf 1 to leaf 2 could travel via any spine. The leaf uses [ECMP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equal-cost_multi-path_routing) to decide which spine to use. An [EVPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethernet_VPN) technology ensures that servers inside of a VPC are reachable at layer2 regardless of which leaf they are attached to the fabric. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above diagram contains a Leaf and Spine routers. Servers inside of a virtual private cloud can be attached to any leaf. In order for the servers to communicate routes are applied to leaf nodes and traffic that needs to pass from leaf 1 to leaf 2 could travel via any spine. The leaf uses [ECMP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equal-cost_multi-path_routing) to decide which spine to use. An [EVPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethernet_VPN) technology ensures that servers inside of a VPC are reachable at layer 2 regardless of which leaf they are attached to in the fabric. 
```

Nit: I'd move the description above the diagram, so that readers know that they look at before they have to read the paragraph under it.

### Core Access Aggregation Diagram
```mermaid
graph TD
    CG1((Core Router 1))
    CG2((Core Router 2))
    AG1([Aggregation 1])
    AG2([Aggregation 2])
    AG3([Aggregation 3])
    A1[Access 1]
    A2[Access 2]
    A3[Access 3]
    WS1[[Worload Servers]]
    WS2[[Worload Servers]]
    WS3[[Worload Servers]]

    CG1 ---- AG1 & AG2 & AG3
    CG2 ---- AG1 & AG2 & AG3
    AG1 ---- A1 
    AG2 ---- A2 
    AG3 ---- A3 
    AG1 -..- A2 & A3
    AG2 -..- A1 & A3
    AG3 -..- A1 & A2
    A1 ---- WS1
    A2 ---- WS2
    A3 ---- WS3

```

> In the diagram above, the Access switches are a isolated and or managed by layer 2 constructs like ACLs, bridging, and VLANs. the Aggregation routers are where layer 2 traffic is promoted to layer 3. The core routers handle layer 3 traffic only. Often some form of Spanning Tree Protocol is used to avoid loops in the layer 2 domain. Loops would cripple the network as layer 2 often relies on Broadcast / Flooding for discovery. While there are multiple paths out from the workload servers to the core they are often not passing traffic due to the Spanning Tree Protocol, these disable links are shown as dotted lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the diagram above, the Access switches are isolated or managed by layer-2 constructs like ACLs, bridging, and VLANs. The Aggregation routers are where layer-2 traffic is promoted to layer 3. The core routers handle layer-3 traffic only. Often some form of Spanning Tree Protocol is used to avoid loops in the layer-2 domain. Loops would cripple the network as layer 2 often relies on Broadcast/Flooding for discovery. While there are multiple paths out from the workload servers to the core they are often not passing traffic due to the Spanning Tree Protocol, these disable links are shown as dotted lines.
```

# Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

## What is the Hedgehog Fabric?

The Hedgehog Fabric is a topology of routers arranged in a spine-leaf architecture. A spine-leaf architecture is a type of [Clos network topology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clos_network). In a spine-leaf architecture, the leaves are usually placed in racks and connected directly to the servers, whereas spines are connected only to leaves. In a spine-leaf architecture, the fundamental unit of connection is a layer 3 route.

The Hedgehog Fabric is managed via Kubernetes objects and custom resource definitions.

## What are the advantages of a spine-leaf architecture?

> A spine-leaf architecture is designed to facilitate traffic that is passing between servers inside of a data center, other architectures like core-access-aggregation are setup to facilitate traffic moving in and out of the data center. A spine-leaf architecture provides multiple paths between nodes which allows for router maintenance and resilience in the case of failures. The spine-leaf architecture allows for multiple points of egress via border leaf nodes. In a spine-leaf architecture the unit of connection is a layer 3 route. There are robust tools, queueing algorithms and hardware available to manage network traffic at layer 3. To manage the distribution of routes to switches inside the fabric a protocol such as BGP, OSPF, or IS-IS is used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A spine-leaf architecture is designed to facilitate traffic that is passing between servers inside of a data center. By contrast, other architectures like core-access-aggregation facilitate traffic moving in and out of the data center. A spine-leaf architecture provides multiple paths between nodes which allows for router maintenance and resilience in the case of failures. The spine-leaf architecture allows for multiple points of egress via border leaf nodes. In a spine-leaf architecture the unit of connection is a layer 3 route. There are robust tools, queueing algorithms and hardware available to manage network traffic at layer 3. To manage the distribution of routes to switches inside the fabric a protocol such as BGP, OSPF, or IS-IS is used. 
```

> ### Spine Leaf Architecture Diagram

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Spine Leaf Architecture Diagram

```

> The below diagram contains a Leaf and Spine routers. Servers inside of a virtual private cloud can be attached to any leaf. In order for the servers to communicate routes are applied to leaf nodes and traffic that needs to pass from leaf 1 to leaf 2 could travel via any spine. The leaf uses [ECMP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equal-cost_multi-path_routing) to decide which spine to use. An [EVPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethernet_VPN) technology ensures that servers inside of a VPC are reachable at layer 2 regardless of which leaf they are attached to in the fabric. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram contains Leaf and Spine routers. Servers inside of a virtual private cloud can be attached to any leaf. To allow the servers to communicate, routes are applied to leaf nodes. The traffic passing from leaf 1 to leaf 2 can travel via any spine: the leaf uses [ECMP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equal-cost_multi-path_routing) to decide which spine to use. [EVPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethernet_VPN) ensures that servers inside of a VPC are reachable at layer 2 regardless of which leaf they are attached to in the Fabric. 
```

For example, if the administrator of a Kubernetes cluster wants to create a new Nginx pod, they write down the YAML file describing the pod name, the container image, any ports that the pod needs exposed, and what namespace to run the pod in. After the YAML file is created, a simple `kubectl apply -f nginx.yaml` is all that the administrator needs to run in order for the pod to be scheduled. 

With the Hedgehog Fabric, the same principles apply to managing network resources. Administrators create a YAML file to configure a VPC. The YAML file describes the IP address range for the private cloud, for example the `192.168.0.0/16` space. It also describes any VLANs that the private cloud needs. After the desired options are in the file, administrators can push the configuration to the switch with a mere `kubectl apply -f vpc1.yaml`, and within a few seconds the switch configuration is live.

> 
> ## What is a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)?

```

> A VPC is [layer 3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_layer) logical isolation inside of a network. To isolate the servers a [VRF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_routing_and_forwarding) is used. A VRF allows for multiple routing tables to exist at the same time on a switch. To isolate one VPC from another there is simply no route between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A VPC provides [layer 3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_layer) logical isolation inside of a network. To isolate the servers, a [VRF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_routing_and_forwarding) is used. A VRF allows for multiple routing tables to exist at the same time on a switch. Each VPC is isolated from the others because there is simply no route between them.
```
